English 111

7 November 2022

The Impact of Technology
The year 2020 was a huge shock for all of us. Teachers, students, and schools alike were all affected as COVID-19 spread throughout the United States. Conforming to this, we were forced to have classes online, which raised multiple problems with teachers as most lacked specialized training. With this rise in tech use, students must receive the best education they can have relating to technology. We need to provide an incentive to all teachers to take a technology training course, which would be highly recommended, but only required for middle school through college professors in Flint. Teachers will eventually need these skills to greatly help students be ready for the workforce and any job they could potentially deal with containing technology. 

Today’s schools depend upon substantial amounts of digital technology (Selwyn) and as such, the impact of technology on education and students as a whole is highly significant. Every single day, there are multiple opportunities for teachers to use technology. This technology for students can help solve complex problems and help students collaborate with others while going at their own pace. However, many teachers see this new tech as a future barrier to teaching, as interruptions and such can lead to a disruptive classroom (Herold). According to a survey done in 2018, about 2,000 teachers were asked a set of questions relating to their skills in technology. The survey results described only 10% of said teachers felt secure in their ability to use technology in class (Hayes). These numbers are much less than ideal. There is a certain need for development and teachers must adapt to this new technology, difficult or not. Professional development is crucial to guaranteeing that both teachers and students make the most of such investments and that a complex and varied process would be able to fix this gap (Hyndman). However, even though the problem can be easily fixed, teachers can still come in contact with a lot of different issues with technology and not know how to fix them. While some issues relate to the tech itself, others can relate to student expectations in technology. To grow, teachers need to have a common vision to heighten their effectiveness with and adaptation to technology (Herold). 

“Without addressing student tech concerns, we risk creating a generation of students ill-prepared for a digital future.”, says Hyndman. Preparing students for success is the best thing you can do as a teacher and as a good person (Black). It is completely clear using technology in the classroom can give students a better grasp of their creativity and exploration while also making it more fun with programs such as Kahoot, Quizlet, BrainPOP, and more. Subjects that students deem challenging or boring can become more interesting with virtual lessons, through a video, or when using a tablet. Though with this, teachers also need to be confident enough to give some control to students, to let them move around a bit creatively. With this, students can use technology at an advanced level to shape how exactly they learn. With this new embrace, teachers will set up students for a successful life outside of school (Cox). Information and communication technology (ICT) skills can help students develop themselves to be more capable and future-ready citizens (Hyndman). Most jobs have at least one digital component in them and using this time to teach them about tech use will prepare them for the increasingly digital world in the future (Cox).

Statistics show a large number of teachers struggle with disruptions their devices can bring, with the training, it will no longer be a disruption (Hyndman). Appropriate access to tech support for teachers isn’t always available, so they must be ready to fix any issues by themselves (Hyndman). Training programs are available to teachers but are not being taken (Hyndman). With the training programs, teachers would be able to aim for small-scale change in the classroom and be able to pay attention to the bigger picture at the same time (Selwyn). Google started a program called the “Dynamic Learning Project”, which improves tech coaching in K-12 schools across the country. ”It aims to give classrooms a technological choice for more powerful learning activities, such as collaboration and critical thinking.” In just a year, teachers can advance as far as classroom projects and online teams. This is pure evidence technology can highly improve efficiency in teaching and learning (Hayes) and streamline the teaching and grading processes  (Herold). Approaching development as a starting part of their firsts with technology makes all their investments worthwhile  (Hayes). Technology can also be seen as a managerial tool for keeping control over what goes on in the classroom (Selwyn).

Within the boundaries of our knowledge, the limit to technology is our imagination. With the new training and options teachers have, it could increase student productivity and creativity exponentially. Teachers will also feel more acquainted and not be at a loss with the technology in their classroom. The most logical choice would be to train our teachers and reap all the benefits of said work. 


Works Cited
Black, Correy. Home, Mt. Morris, Michigan, United States.
Cox, Janelle. “Benefits of Technology in the Classroom.” TeachHUB, 7 November 2019, https://www.teachhub.com/technology-in-the-classroom/2019/11/benefits-of-technology-in-the-classroom/. Accessed 3 October 2022.
Hayes, Heather B. “K–12 Experts Weigh In on Training Teachers to Use Education Technology.” EdTech Magazine, 25 October 2018, https://edtechmagazine.com/k12/article/2018/10/k-12-experts-weigh-training-teachers-use-education-technology. Accessed 3 October 2022.
Herold, Benjamin. “To Improve Teachers' Use of Technology, Schools Try Hiring Coaches.” Education Week, 3 October 2018, https://www.edweek.org/leadership/to-improve-teachers-use-of-technology-schools-try-hiring-coaches/2018/10. Accessed 3 October 2022.
Hyndman, Brendon. “Ten reasons teachers can struggle to use technology in the classroom.” The Conversation, 13 August 2018, https://theconversation.com/ten-reasons-teachers-can-struggle-to-use-technology-in-the-classroom-101114. Accessed 3 October 2022.
Selwyn, Neil. “Teachers and technology: time to get serious.” Early Career Hub, 16 January 2019, https://my.chartered.college/impact_article/teachers-and-technology-time-to-get-serious/. Accessed 3 October 2022.
